(coc)=
# MARL Values and Code of Conduct

The Music and Audio Research Lab (MARL) is an ever-changing and heterogeneous community of people, brought together by our shared love of music, sound and science. We strive to create an environment that is welcoming and inclusive, where diversity of experiences and viewpoints is valued for the strength it is, and where openness and collaboration are the norm. We are a work in progress and need your help to be better.

Members of MARL are expected to be respectful with one another. Examples of behavior that contributes to a positive environment for our community include:

Demonstrating empathy and kindness toward other people
Being respectful of differing opinions, viewpoints, and experiences
Giving and gracefully accepting constructive feedback
Accepting responsibility and apologizing to those affected by our mistakes, and learning from the experience
Focusing on what is best not just for us as individuals, but for the overall community
Understanding that we all have a life outside the lab, and there are more important things than work and study.

Any kind of harassment and/or impolite behavior will not be tolerated. Members are expected to always be polite and to act with integrity towards colleagues and fellow members. Members must remember that their behavior is expected to be impeccable at all times, not only in interactions with other members of the community that occur during MARL activities, but also in those happening outside of the center’s domain. We aim to create an environment free from harassment. Harassment includes, but is not limited to: offensive verbal comments related to gender, gender identity and expression, age, sexual orientation, disability, physical appearance, body size, race, ethnicity, nationality, religion, English fluency; distribution of inappropriate content such as sexual images; deliberate intimidation, stalking, following, harassing photography or recording; sustained disruption of talks or other events, inappropriate physical contact and unwelcome sexual attention. Harassment violates New York University’s policy and will not be tolerated. 

If you are uncomfortable, please speak up. Members are encouraged to raise concerns freely to the MARL leadership, including the center’s director (Juan Bello), associate director (Pablo Ripolles), and/or any of the MARL faculty members.  Community leaders (Bello, Ripolles, and MARL faculty members) are responsible for clarifying and enforcing our standards of acceptable behavior and will take appropriate and fair corrective action in response to any behavior that they deem inappropriate, threatening, offensive, or harmful. It is also the leadership’s responsibility to foster accessibility and inclusion: if you need special assistance, it is our job to accommodate you, not your job to figure it out. If issues out of your control arise, please communicate them in a timely fashion. Members with concerns about equity, diversity, or inclusion can seek out additional support through NYU’s policy and contacts on the [Non-Discrimination and Anti-Harassment page](https://www.nyu.edu/about/policies-guidelines-compliance/equal-opportunity/harassment-and-discrimination.html).

Academic life can be stressful. It is important that we all prioritize our physical, mental health and well-being over work. Hence, we all should make sure to take an active role in prioritizing our own health and well-being and also to ensure that we are all informed about the resources available. Should you or your peers need support, please talk to MARL faculty and take advantage of the extensive wellness resources that NYU offers. The NYU [Counseling Services](https://www.nyu.edu/students/health-and-wellness/counseling-services/counseling.html) office is also available. NYU offers students short-term individual counseling, group counseling, self-improvement classes, referrals, and psychiatric medication services. All services except psychiatric medication services are free of charge. In addition to scheduling same-day appointments, students can speak with a mental or medical health professional 24 hours a day, 7 days a week by calling the [Wellness Exchange](https://www.nyu.edu/content/nyu/en/students/health-and-wellness/wellness-exchange.html) at (212) 443-9999.
